
1. Be Careful What You Ask For 
2. [[#Taking Responsibility]]
3. [[#First, Do Not Harm]] 
4. [[#Work Ethics]]

## Taking Responsibility

The author has messed up the routine task, i.e. running of check which finds faults and make a report and send it to managers. So that it could be fixed before customer could have reported it. 
He was focused on shipping new feature to save his reputation, with sacrifice of routine task. This caused a lot of trouble to existing feature and new feature. 
This could have been prevented if he reported the manager of the delay of shipping new feature and completed the routine check. It could be hard to swallow situation for both manager and author, but it could have saved a lot of complain from customer, which was there for a week. 

- If there is a delay tell the manager, so that he could take better decision. It could be hard pill, but eventually it might will save you from big disaster. 
- You should take responsibility of communicating with peers for updates of work. It could be the delay or a blocker which is impacting the project. 
- You should take responsibility of maintaining the project, and delivering it on time. And not messing things up. 

Example 
1. [[Support for Android 14]] Where I have taken responsibility and provided the correct estimation and worked on it without hindering the business flow.


## First, Do Not Harm

* What harm can software developer do ?
	A developer can harm both function and structure of the software 

* **Do not harm the function**
	You are not expected to make same errors again and again. As you grow in profession, error rate should drop drastically to zero. 
	
	- QA should not find anything
		- "Never mind" this behavior ruins the schedules and shake the confidence of organization in development team.
		
		- How to prevent the bugs 
			- By writing 100% test coverage. It is demand of the author to write it. 
			- Writes test before the code you write. Implement TDD (Test Driven Development)
			- Your automated test should tell you, QA will likely to find nothing.  

-  **Do Not Harm to Structure** 
	- Professional knows delivering the functions at the expense of structure is fool's errand (short way). 
	- Fundamental of software - it is easy to change. If you break it creates inflexibility   
		***"You must be a able to make changes without exorbitant cost."***
	- What happens if you break it - things which can be completed in short time will start taking long time and it keeps adding time on. Things will keep going worse, even if you add more developers. 
	
	***If you want your software to be flexible, you have to flex it !***
	
	- How do you improve structure
		- **Merciless Refactoring** - Every time you visit a module you make small changes to improve the structure. Always check in module cleaner than when you checked it out. Show a random act of kindness.
		- **Danger** - If you let your code static 
		- **Test Cases** - Most developers are afraid to make changes because fear of breaking. Professionals are certain of code that they are continuously changing it.   
	
	***Treat the software the way sculptor treat clay - They  continuously shape and
	mold it***


## Work Ethics

Your career is your responsibility not employer's. Employers is not responsible for giving time to learn new things. If Employer provide you with time then you must be highly grateful for the favor. 
40 hr office work + 20 hr learning + 56 hr for sleep + 52 for other  = 168 hr (1 week)

* Know your field 
	1. Design Pattern -  24 in GOF book and have working knowledge in POSA books
	2. Design Principles - SOLID, component principle 
	3. Methods - XP, Scrum, Lean, Kaban, Waterfall, Structured Analysis and Structure Design 
	4. Disciplines - TDD, Object Oriented Design, Structural Programming, Continuous Integration 
	5. Artifacts - UML, DFDs, Structure Charts, Petri Nets, State Transition Diagram and Tables, flow charts and decision Tables 

* Continuous learning 
* Practice 
* Collaboration 
* Mentoring 
* Know Your Domain 
	* If you are creating a software for a domain lets say travelling, at least gather some knowledge about that field, what it is and how it works. 
	* Gather foundation and basics of the domain. Spend some time with experts and try to understand their principles and values. 
	* Worst kind of unprofessional behavior is to simply code from spec without understanding why it makes sense to business.
	* You should be capable enough to challenge specification errors
* Identify with your Employer / Customer ^ethics-employer
	* Put yourself in employer's shoes and make sure that feature satisfy the need of business or employer 
	* Do not fall for US vs Them attitude. Professional avoid this at all costs.
	for reference [[Faculty Attendance Taking (Term Setting)#Completing Offline]]
* Humility 
	* Professional takes pride in his work and knows his job. Confident in abilities and take bold and calculated risks. 
	* Professional is not timid. 
	* If he find butt of the jokes he should just laugh off and do not ridicule others. 

